raft-wal docs (#25572)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/upgrading/raft-wal.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrading integrated storage to raft-wal
description: These are instructions for how to upgrade integrated storage to use the raft-wal log store.
---

# Upgrading integrated storage to use raft-wal

## What is it?

> This document will cover how to upgrade your Vault cluster that's using integrated storage with the raft-boltdb
> library, which has been the default since integrated storage's inception, to use the new raft-wal log store
> introduced in 1.16.0. It will also cover how to revert an upgrade of raft-wal back to using raft-boltdb, if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document will describe how to upgrade and existing Vault cluster from the BoltDB log storage to the use `raft-wal` storage instead. `raft-wal` is a new and still experimental log storage backend introduced in Vault 1.16.0. 

This document will also describe how to revert an upgrade of raft-wal back to using raft-boltdb, if
```

> desired. This document will not cover what raft-wal is or why you might want to upgrade to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
desired.
```

> For further information on those types of questions, please refer to the
> [internals](/vault/docs/internals/integrated-storage#configurable-raft-log-store) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further information about the differences between `raft-wal` and BoltDB log stores, please refer to the
[internals](/vault/docs/internals/integrated-storage#configurable-raft-log-store) page.
```

## How to upgrade from raft-boltdb to raft-wal

Migrating from raft-boltdb to raft-wal can be done on a node-by-node basis. The steps to perform on each node are:
1. Gracefully shut down the Vault process.
1. Rename the existing Vault storage directory to something else.
   1. For example, if the `path` in Vault's `storage` config is
   `/opt/vault/data` then you'd do something like: `mv /opt/vault/data /opt/vault/data.old`
1. Add the new config
   1. Add `raft_wal = "true"` to the existing storage stanza in the Vault config file.
   1. Optionally enable log verification by setting `raft_log_verifier_enabled = "true"`.
   1. If log verification was enabled, optionally choose a verification interval, if the default of one minute is not optimal.
      1. This can be set by adding e.g. `raft_log_verification_interval = "30s"` to the storage stanza.

>       1. Choose your own interval instead of `30s` as demonstrated here. Note that `10s` is the minimum allowed value.

Reviewer: HInted at before but have we tested that this is safe on a mixed cluster? If not we should call out with a warning that you must not enable verification until all nodes int he cluster are running 1.16. i.e. don't do this _during_ the upgrade to 1.16 or a new node might become leader early and crash all the old followers.
